docs/server_guide/VIDEO_LIBRARY.md, before:


# Video Library

> **📍 Navigation:** [Documentation Home](../README.md) | [Server Guide](../README.md#-server-guide) | [Getting started](GETTING_STARTED.md) | [Architecture](ARCHITECTURE.md) | [Installation](INSTALLATION.md) | [Configuration](CONFIGURATION.md) | [Security](SECURITY.md) | [Customization](CUSTOMIZING.md) | [Client Guide](../client_guide/CLIENT_GUIDE.md) 


The video library is a curation of videos that the community believes would be valuable for new members.

## Demo's
[Server Overview and demo](https://www.teradata.com/insights/videos/build-ai-agents-using-mcp-server) - Overview of the MCP server and demo of Exploratory Data Analysis, Data Lineage, DBA use cases and building a simple voice assistant.
[DBA use cases](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CYUs1tRoO1M&t=14s) - this demo is a short overview of the server along with some simple DBA use cases.


## Installation
[Installing on a mac](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QokGX1a5ZuU) - this is a longer video walking you through the steps to install the server on your mac.

Commit message:

updates to the install videos

docs/server_guide/VIDEO_LIBRARY.md, after:


# Video Library

> **📍 Navigation:** [Documentation Home](../README.md) | [Server Guide](../README.md#-server-guide) | [Getting started](GETTING_STARTED.md) | [Architecture](ARCHITECTURE.md) | [Installation](INSTALLATION.md) | [Configuration](CONFIGURATION.md) | [Security](SECURITY.md) | [Customization](CUSTOMIZING.md) | [Client Guide](../client_guide/CLIENT_GUIDE.md) 


The video library is a curation of videos that the community believes would be valuable for new members.

## Demo's
[Server Overview and demo](https://www.teradata.com/insights/videos/build-ai-agents-using-mcp-server) - Overview of the MCP server and demo of Exploratory Data Analysis, Data Lineage, DBA use cases and building a simple voice assistant.
[DBA use cases](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CYUs1tRoO1M&t=14s) - this demo is a short overview of the server along with some simple DBA use cases.


## Installation

[Installing streamable HTTP server](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIZ7jSJXRMo) - this is the most flexible approach to installing the server

[Installing for Development](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDzbVCKbUgQ) - this installed from github so you have access to tall the source code
