docs/GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

# MCP Server - Getting Started

![Getting Started](media/MCP.png)

This document will cover the process and options for getting the teradata-mcp-server up and running

Assumes that you have a running Teradata environment, you should have the following information for your Teradata system:
1. host address - IP address or DNS address for the location of the server
2. user name - name you log into the teradata system with
3. user password - password for the corresponding user name
4. database - On Teradata systems this is typically the same as you user name

## Step 0 - Installing git
Refer to the [git](https://git-scm.com/) website for download and installation instructions for your environment.

## Step 1 - Download the Software
Clone the mcp-server repository with: 

On Windows
```
git clone https://github.com/Teradata/teradata-mcp-server.git
cd teradata-mcp-server
```

On Mac/Linux
```
git clone https://github.com/Teradata/teradata-mcp-server.git
cd teradata-mcp-server
```

Changes are constantly happening to the server, we recommend that you come back occasionally to update the code.
```
cd teradata-mcp-server
git pull origin main
```

## Step 3 - You have a choice

![Choice](media/transport.png) 

Transport Modes (in order of preference)
1. Streamable-Http (http) - this transport mode uses the http protocol for communication, this is the recomended mode to use.
2. Standard IO (stdio) - all communications are published to standard input and output, this is suitable for a standalone server running on your laptop.
3. Server Side Events (SSE) - this transport mode is going to be decomissioned by the mcp standard hence we do not recommend using this.


Deployment Choice
1. Docker Container - the container will manage the libraries and starting the service.
2. UV - UV will manage the libraries (this approach is more suitable for development)
3. REST - The rest approach takes the docker container and wraps it in a Restful API

The recommended choice will be to deploy Streamable-http in a docker container. [Jump to next section](#step-5---using-docker) for the docker option.

## Step 4 - Decide on the tools/prompts you want to be available (optional) to a profile

Open the [configure_tools.yaml](../configure_tools.yml) file.  The first level of the structure is the profile name, then the module name, then allmodule/tools/prompts

For each module if you set allmodule to True then all tools and prompts will be visible unless you explicitly set the tool/prompt name to False.  If the allmodule is set to False, then nothing will be visible unless you explicitly set the tool/prompt name to True.

If no profile is defined then the default profile will be "all" this will enable all tools and prompts.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Step 5 - Using Docker

The server expects the Teradata URI string via the `DATABASE_URI` environment variable. You may:
- update the `docker-compose.yaml` file or 
- setup the environment variable with your system's connection details:

`export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/databaseschema`

### Run the MCP server with Streamable-Http (default)

This starts only the core Teradata MCP server (with stdio or SSE communication):

```sh
docker compose up
```

The server will be available on port 8001 (or the value of the `PORT` environment variable).
<br><br><br>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Step 5 - UV Environment Set Up 

Make sure you have uv installed on your system, installation instructions can be found at https://github.com/astral-sh/uv .

**Step 1** - Clone the mcp-server repository, sync the necessary libraries, and activate the environment with

On Windows
```
cd teradata-mcp-server
uv sync
.venv/Scripts/activate
```

On Mac/Linux
```
cd teradata-mcp-server
uv sync
source .venv/bin/activate
```

**Step 2** - Configure the server
To configure the connections set the following environment variables in your shell or in a .env file in the current directory (by updating and renaming the provided [env](./env) file).

1. **DATABASE_URI**

This is the database connection string using the following format:  `teradata://username:password@host:1025/[schemaname]`

2. **LOGMECH**

This is the login mechansim: TD or LDAP

3. **MCP_TRANSPORT**

The server will connect to your Teradata instance and to the clients using one of the following transport modes 
- Standard IO (stdio)
- server-sent events (SSE)  
- streamable-http (streamable-http). 

4. **TD_POOL_SIZE**

The TD_POOL_SIZE defaults to 5, this is used in the connection to Teradata.

5. **TD_MAX_OVERFLOW**

The TD_MAX_OVERFLOW defaults to 10, this is used in the connection to Teradata.

6. **TD_POOL_TIMEOUT**

The TD_POOL_TIMEOUT defaults to 30, this is used in the connection to Teradata.

7. **MCP_HOST**

This is the host address used when using the sse or streamable-http transport modes, default = localhost (127.0.0.1)

8. **MCP_PORT**

This is the port address used when using the sse or streamable-http transport modes, default = 8001

9. **MCP_PATH**

This is the path used for streamable_http transport mode, default to `\mcp`

10. **Enterprise Vector Store**
These are the parameters required when using the enterprise vector store tools.

TD_BASE_URL=        #Your UES_URI, strip off the trailing /open-analytics
TD_PAT=             #Your PAT string
TD_PEM=             #Your PEM location
VS_NAME=            #Your target Vector Store Name


Minimum Configuration example:
```
export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/schemaname
export LOGMECH=LDAP

# Enables transport communication as stdio, sse, streamable-http
export MCP_TRANSPORT=streamable-http 
export MCP_HOST=127.0.0.1
export MCP_PORT=8001
export MCP_PATH=/mcp/
```

**Step 3** - Run the server with uv in a terminal

`uv run teradata-mcp-server --profile all`


--------------------------------------------------------------------
## Step 5 Run the MCP server with REST

Alternatively, you can expose your tools, prompts and resources as REST endpoints using the `rest` profile.

You can set an API key using the environment variable `MCPO_API_KEY`. 
Caution: there is no default value, not no authorization needed by default.

The default port is 8002.

**Using uv:**
```sh
export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/databaseschema
export MCPO_API_KEY=top-secret
export TRANSPORT=stdio
uvx mcpo --port 8002 --api-key "top-secret" -- uv run teradata-mcp-server 
```

or **using docker**:
```sh
export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/databaseschema
export MCPO_API_KEY=top-secret
docker compose --profile rest up
```

---------------------------------------------------------------------
## Run the MCP Server as a service
There are two options to configure the MCP server for automatic restart:

### Using Docker
If the server is using docker compose and you wish to have it automatically start on system reboot, add the following entry to the docker-compose.yaml file to either or both service entries (```teradata-mcp-server:```, ```teradata-rest-server:```)
```sh
services:
  teradata-mcp-server:
    build: .
    image: teradata-mcp-server:latest
    restart: always
```

### Using UV in the user environment
If the server is set up to run locally using ```uv run...```, it can be configured to run as a systemd service.
1. Create a file in /etc/systemd/service named ```<your service name>.service```, e.g. ```teradata_mcp.service```
2. Copy the following entries - modify for your environment:
```sh
[Unit]
Description=Teradata MCP  demo service
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
WorkingDirectory=/home/ec2-user/teradata-mcp-server
User=ec2-user
ExecStart=/home/ec2-user/.local/bin/uv run /home/ec2-user/teradata-mcp-server/src/teradata_mcp_server/server.py > /dev/null

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
3. Run ```sudo systemctl start <your service name>.service``` to start the service
4. Run ```sudo systemctl status <your service name>.service``` to check status
5. Run ```sudo systemctl enable <your service name>.service``` to enable start on system boot
6. To be safe, test increasing restart intervals for stability.  Create a crontab for the service:
7. ```sudo crontab -e```
8. ```0 * * * * /bin/systemctl restart <your service name>.service```

## Client set up

For details on how to set up client tools, refer to [Working with Clients](./client_guide/CLIENT_GUIDE.md)

Commit message:

Adding mac installation link to video library, updating the getting started guide for profiles

docs/GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# MCP Server - Getting Started

![Getting Started](media/MCP.png)

This document will cover the process and options for getting the teradata-mcp-server up and running

Assumes that you have a running Teradata environment, you should have the following information for your Teradata system:
1. host address - IP address or DNS address for the location of the server
2. user name - name you log into the teradata system with
3. user password - password for the corresponding user name
4. database - On Teradata systems this is typically the same as you user name

## Step 0 - Installing git
Refer to the [git](https://git-scm.com/) website for download and installation instructions for your environment.

## Step 1 - Download the Software
Clone the mcp-server repository with: 

On Windows
```
git clone https://github.com/Teradata/teradata-mcp-server.git
cd teradata-mcp-server
```

On Mac/Linux
```
git clone https://github.com/Teradata/teradata-mcp-server.git
cd teradata-mcp-server
```

Changes are constantly happening to the server, we recommend that you come back occasionally to update the code.
```
cd teradata-mcp-server
git pull origin main
```

## Step 3 - You have a choice

![Choice](media/transport.png) 

Transport Modes (in order of preference)
1. Streamable-Http (http) - this transport mode uses the http protocol for communication, this is the recomended mode to use.
2. Standard IO (stdio) - all communications are published to standard input and output, this is suitable for a standalone server running on your laptop.
3. Server Side Events (SSE) - this transport mode is going to be decomissioned by the mcp standard hence we do not recommend using this.


Deployment Choice
1. Docker Container - the container will manage the libraries and starting the service.
2. UV - UV will manage the libraries (this approach is more suitable for development)
3. REST - The rest approach takes the docker container and wraps it in a Restful API

The recommended choice will be to deploy Streamable-http in a docker container. [Jump to next section](#step-5---using-docker) for the docker option.

## Step 4 - Decide on the tools/prompts you want to be available (optional) to a profile

Open the [profiles.yml](../profiles.yml) file.  

Profiles allow you to limit the tools / prompts / resources available to the server at spin up.  We provide a few different profiles and you can make changes as you see fit.

If no profile is defined then the default profile will be "all" this will enable all tools and prompts.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Step 5 - Using Docker

The server expects the Teradata URI string via the `DATABASE_URI` environment variable. You may:
- update the `docker-compose.yaml` file or 
- setup the environment variable with your system's connection details:

`export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/databaseschema`

### Run the MCP server with Streamable-Http (default)

This starts only the core Teradata MCP server (with stdio or SSE communication):

```sh
docker compose up
```

The server will be available on port 8001 (or the value of the `PORT` environment variable).
<br><br><br>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Step 5 - UV Environment Set Up 

Make sure you have uv installed on your system, installation instructions can be found at https://github.com/astral-sh/uv .

**Step 1** - Clone the mcp-server repository, sync the necessary libraries, and activate the environment with

On Windows
```
cd teradata-mcp-server
uv sync
.venv/Scripts/activate
```

On Mac/Linux
```
cd teradata-mcp-server
uv sync
source .venv/bin/activate
```

**Step 2** - Configure the server
To configure the connections set the following environment variables in your shell or in a .env file in the current directory (by updating and renaming the provided [env](./env) file).

1. **DATABASE_URI**

This is the database connection string using the following format:  `teradata://username:password@host:1025/[schemaname]`

2. **LOGMECH**

This is the login mechansim: TD or LDAP

3. **MCP_TRANSPORT**

The server will connect to your Teradata instance and to the clients using one of the following transport modes 
- Standard IO (stdio)
- server-sent events (SSE)  
- streamable-http (streamable-http). 

4. **TD_POOL_SIZE**

The TD_POOL_SIZE defaults to 5, this is used in the connection to Teradata.

5. **TD_MAX_OVERFLOW**

The TD_MAX_OVERFLOW defaults to 10, this is used in the connection to Teradata.

6. **TD_POOL_TIMEOUT**

The TD_POOL_TIMEOUT defaults to 30, this is used in the connection to Teradata.

7. **MCP_HOST**

This is the host address used when using the sse or streamable-http transport modes, default = localhost (127.0.0.1)

8. **MCP_PORT**

This is the port address used when using the sse or streamable-http transport modes, default = 8001

9. **MCP_PATH**

This is the path used for streamable_http transport mode, default to `\mcp`

10. **Enterprise Vector Store**
These are the parameters required when using the enterprise vector store tools.

TD_BASE_URL=        #Your UES_URI, strip off the trailing /open-analytics
TD_PAT=             #Your PAT string
TD_PEM=             #Your PEM location
VS_NAME=            #Your target Vector Store Name


Minimum Configuration example:
```
export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/schemaname
export LOGMECH=LDAP

# Enables transport communication as stdio, sse, streamable-http
export MCP_TRANSPORT=streamable-http 
export MCP_HOST=127.0.0.1
export MCP_PORT=8001
export MCP_PATH=/mcp/
```

**Step 3** - Run the server with uv in a terminal

`uv run teradata-mcp-server --profile all`


--------------------------------------------------------------------
## Step 5 Run the MCP server with REST

Alternatively, you can expose your tools, prompts and resources as REST endpoints using the `rest` profile.

You can set an API key using the environment variable `MCPO_API_KEY`. 
Caution: there is no default value, not no authorization needed by default.

The default port is 8002.

**Using uv:**
```sh
export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/databaseschema
export MCPO_API_KEY=top-secret
export TRANSPORT=stdio
uvx mcpo --port 8002 --api-key "top-secret" -- uv run teradata-mcp-server 
```

or **using docker**:
```sh
export DATABASE_URI=teradata://username:password@host:1025/databaseschema
export MCPO_API_KEY=top-secret
docker compose --profile rest up
```

---------------------------------------------------------------------
## Run the MCP Server as a service
There are two options to configure the MCP server for automatic restart:

### Using Docker
If the server is using docker compose and you wish to have it automatically start on system reboot, add the following entry to the docker-compose.yaml file to either or both service entries (```teradata-mcp-server:```, ```teradata-rest-server:```)
```sh
services:
  teradata-mcp-server:
    build: .
    image: teradata-mcp-server:latest
    restart: always
```

### Using UV in the user environment
If the server is set up to run locally using ```uv run...```, it can be configured to run as a systemd service.
1. Create a file in /etc/systemd/service named ```<your service name>.service```, e.g. ```teradata_mcp.service```
2. Copy the following entries - modify for your environment:
```sh
[Unit]
Description=Teradata MCP  demo service
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0
[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
WorkingDirectory=/home/ec2-user/teradata-mcp-server
User=ec2-user
ExecStart=/home/ec2-user/.local/bin/uv run /home/ec2-user/teradata-mcp-server/src/teradata_mcp_server/server.py > /dev/null

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
3. Run ```sudo systemctl start <your service name>.service``` to start the service
4. Run ```sudo systemctl status <your service name>.service``` to check status
5. Run ```sudo systemctl enable <your service name>.service``` to enable start on system boot
6. To be safe, test increasing restart intervals for stability.  Create a crontab for the service:
7. ```sudo crontab -e```
8. ```0 * * * * /bin/systemctl restart <your service name>.service```

## Client set up

For details on how to set up client tools, refer to [Working with Clients](./client_guide/CLIENT_GUIDE.md)
