docs/SECURITY.md, before:

# Audit and security

All database tool calls are traced using [Teradata DBQL](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/Database-Administration/Tracking-Query-Behavior-with-Database-Query-Logging-Operational-DBAs) and the MCP server implements query banding by default.

We enable several mechanisms to manage database access (and RBAC policies):
- End user via proxy user (recommended for general use):The MCP server uses a [Permanent proxy user](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/SQL-Data-Control-Language/Statement-Syntax/GRANT-CONNECT-THROUGH/CONNECT-THROUGH-Usage-Notes/GRANT-CONNECT-THROUGH-Trusted-Sessions-and-User-Types/Permanent-Proxy-Users) to assume the privileges of the client user using their own database user. Requires user identification.
- Application user (best for application-specific deployments): a single database user is dedicated to the MCP Server instance.
- End user direct authentication: The end user passes their database credentials (eg. JWT token) via the client.

We enable several mechanisms to authenticate to the server:
- No authentication (AUTH_MODE=none)
- Basic authentication (AUTH_MODE=basic)
- OAuth 2.1
  - JWT without verification AUTH_MODE=oauth_no_verify)
  - JWT with IDP verification (AUTH_MODE=oauth_verify)
  - Full OAuth with introspection (AUTH_MODE=oauth_full)

## Tracing tool calls

By default, all tool calls are identified in the Teradata database with [QueryBand](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/Database-Administration/Managing-Database-Resources-Operational-DBAs/Managing-Sessions-and-Transactions-with-Query-Banding/Finding-the-Origin-of-a-Query-Using-Query-Bands).

Example of output in `dbc.qrylog.QueryBand`:

`=T> APPLICATION=teradata-mcp-server;PROCESS_ID=myserver:58488;TOOL_NAME=base_databaseList;REQUEST_ID=06c782e231484316b4caa500194d539c;SESSION_ID=06c782e231484316b4caa500194d539c;USER_AGENT=node;AUTH_SCHEME=Bearer;AUTH_HASH=b7ca7936a723;`

The following parameters are included in the query band for each tool call:

| Key         | Description                                                           | Source                                                                                      |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| APPLICATION | Name of the calling application (e.g., `teradata-mcp-server`)         | FastMCP server name (`mcp.name`)                                                            |
| PROFILE     | Profile or role associated with the server instance (if available)       | Selected profile for the server process                                                                |
| PROCESS_ID  | Identifier for the process making the request                         | Hostname + process ID                                                                       |
| TOOL_NAME   | Name of the tool or API endpoint invoked                              | Current tool name                                                                           |
| REQUEST_ID  | Unique identifier for the request                                     | FastMCP request context ID (or UUID fallback)                                               |
| SESSION_ID  | FastMCP session id (or request_id fallback)                           | FastMCP session id (or request_id fallback)                                                 |
| TENANT      | Tenant or customer identifier (if applicable)                         | Header (`x-td-tenant` / `x-tenant`)                                                         |
| CLIENT_IP   | IP address of the client making the request                           | Header (`x-forwarded-for`), if provided                                                     |
| USER_AGENT  | User agent string from the client                                     | Header (`user-agent`)                                                                       |
| AUTH_SCHEME | Authentication scheme used (e.g., `Bearer`, `Basic`)                  | Header (`authorization` scheme)                                                             |
| AUTH_HASH   | Hashed value representing the authentication credential or token       | SHA-256 hash of the authorization token                                                     |

Usage example:

```sql
select  getQueryBandValue(QueryBand, 0, 'TOOL_NAME'), username, count(1) request_cnt, avg(elapsedTime) elapsedTime_avg
from dbc.qrylog
where getQueryBandValue(QueryBand, 0, 'APPLICATION')= 'teradata-mcp-server'
and StartTime (date)=current_date
group by 1,2 order by 3 desc
```

| Tool Name                  | User       | Requests | Avg Elapsed Time   |
|----------------------------|------------|----------|--------------------|
| dba_resusageSummary        | DEMO_USER  | 23       | 0:00:00.001304     |
| dba_systemSpace            | DEMO_USER  | 10       | 0:00:00.000000     |
| base_readQuery             | DEMO_USER  | 9        | 0:00:00.001111     |
| base_tablePreview          | DEMO_USER  | 8        | 0:00:00.001250     |
| base_tableList             | DEMO_USER  | 7        | 0:00:00.000000     |


## Database Access

### Proxy user

This requires you to create a proxy user for the MCP Server in advance, and associate existing databases users so the MCP Server user can assume their identity.

Here is how you can do it:

Create a proxy user for the MCP Server
```SQL
CREATE USER mcp_svc AS 
    PASSWORD = mcp_svc
    ,PERM = 10e9  -- Adjust as needed
    ,SPOOL = 10e9  -- Adjust as needed
    ,ACCOUNT = 'service_account';
```

If you use a system admin user to manage users and roles make sure that it has CTCONTROL rights on the proxy user
```SQL
GRANT CTCONTROL ON mcp_svc TO sysdba WITH GRANT OPTION;
```

Proxy sessions use the user’s default role. You can specify roles using the `WITH ROLE` option. 
For more details, see [GRANT CONNECT THROUGH documentation](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/SQL-Data-Control-Language/Statement-Syntax/GRANT-CONNECT-THROUGH).

```SQL
GRANT CONNECT THROUGH mcp_svc
  TO PERMANENT demo_user WITHOUT ROLE;
  --, PERMANENT alice   WITHOUT ROLE --Additional users here
```

Now you can use this the proxy user in as the MCP Server database connection, eg.

```sh
export DATABASE_URI="teradata://mcp_svc:mcp_svc@yourteradatasystem.teradata.com:1025"
uv run teradata-mcp-server --mcp_transport streamable-http --mcp_port 8001
```

:warning: **FOR DEMO PURPOSE** this needs to be integrated with an authentication mechanism to identify of the end user and determine the associated DB user!
In your client, indicate the end user name to assume in the http header, using the `db_user` key.

For example, with Clause Desktop  `claude_desktop_config.json`, to assume the `demo_user` user.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
   "teradata_mcp_remote": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["mcp-remote", "http://localhost:8001/mcp/", "--header", "X-Assume-User: ${DB_USER}"],
      "env": { "DB_USER": "demo_user" }
    }
  }
}
```

## Authentication
:warning: **Work in progress**

### End user direct authentication
Example: using Claude Desktop with [mcp-remote](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mcp-remote) to authentcate using a Baerer token:

Add the server configuration in `claude_desktop_config.json`

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
   "teradata_mcp_remote": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["mcp-remote", "http://localhost:8001/mcp/", "--header", "Authorization: Bearer ${AUTH_TOKEN}"],
      "env": { "AUTH_TOKEN": "thisismytoken" }
    }
  }
}
```

## Reporting a Vulnerability

The teradata-mcp-server community take security seriously.

We apprciate your efforts to responsibly disclose your findings, and will make every effort to acknowledge your contribution.

To report a security issue, please use the GitHub Security Advisory ["Report a Vulnerability"](https://github.com/Teradata/teradata-mcp-server/security/advisories)

Commit message:

updated readme with Application user

docs/SECURITY.md, after:

# Audit and security

All database tool calls are traced using [Teradata DBQL](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/Database-Administration/Tracking-Query-Behavior-with-Database-Query-Logging-Operational-DBAs) and the MCP server implements query banding by default.

We enable several mechanisms to manage database access (and RBAC policies):
- End user via proxy user (recommended for general use):The MCP server uses a [Permanent proxy user](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/SQL-Data-Control-Language/Statement-Syntax/GRANT-CONNECT-THROUGH/CONNECT-THROUGH-Usage-Notes/GRANT-CONNECT-THROUGH-Trusted-Sessions-and-User-Types/Permanent-Proxy-Users) to assume the privileges of the client user using their own database user. Requires user identification.
- Application user (best for application-specific deployments): a single database user is dedicated to the MCP Server instance.
- End user direct authentication: The end user passes their database credentials (eg. JWT token) via the client.

We enable several mechanisms to authenticate to the server:
- No authentication (AUTH_MODE=none)
- Basic authentication (AUTH_MODE=basic)
- OAuth 2.1
  - JWT without verification AUTH_MODE=oauth_no_verify)
  - JWT with IDP verification (AUTH_MODE=oauth_verify)
  - Full OAuth with introspection (AUTH_MODE=oauth_full)

## Tracing tool calls

By default, all tool calls are identified in the Teradata database with [QueryBand](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/Database-Administration/Managing-Database-Resources-Operational-DBAs/Managing-Sessions-and-Transactions-with-Query-Banding/Finding-the-Origin-of-a-Query-Using-Query-Bands).

Example of output in `dbc.qrylog.QueryBand`:

`=T> APPLICATION=teradata-mcp-server;PROCESS_ID=myserver:58488;TOOL_NAME=base_databaseList;REQUEST_ID=06c782e231484316b4caa500194d539c;SESSION_ID=06c782e231484316b4caa500194d539c;USER_AGENT=node;AUTH_SCHEME=Bearer;AUTH_HASH=b7ca7936a723;`

The following parameters are included in the query band for each tool call:

| Key         | Description                                                           | Source                                                                                      |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| APPLICATION | Name of the calling application (e.g., `teradata-mcp-server`)         | FastMCP server name (`mcp.name`)                                                            |
| PROFILE     | Profile or role associated with the server instance (if available)       | Selected profile for the server process                                                                |
| PROCESS_ID  | Identifier for the process making the request                         | Hostname + process ID                                                                       |
| TOOL_NAME   | Name of the tool or API endpoint invoked                              | Current tool name                                                                           |
| REQUEST_ID  | Unique identifier for the request                                     | FastMCP request context ID (or UUID fallback)                                               |
| SESSION_ID  | FastMCP session id (or request_id fallback)                           | FastMCP session id (or request_id fallback)                                                 |
| TENANT      | Tenant or customer identifier (if applicable)                         | Header (`x-td-tenant` / `x-tenant`)                                                         |
| CLIENT_IP   | IP address of the client making the request                           | Header (`x-forwarded-for`), if provided                                                     |
| USER_AGENT  | User agent string from the client                                     | Header (`user-agent`)                                                                       |
| AUTH_SCHEME | Authentication scheme used (e.g., `Bearer`, `Basic`)                  | Header (`authorization` scheme)                                                             |
| AUTH_HASH   | Hashed value representing the authentication credential or token       | SHA-256 hash of the authorization token                                                     |

Usage example:

```sql
select  getQueryBandValue(QueryBand, 0, 'TOOL_NAME'), username, count(1) request_cnt, avg(elapsedTime) elapsedTime_avg
from dbc.qrylog
where getQueryBandValue(QueryBand, 0, 'APPLICATION')= 'teradata-mcp-server'
and StartTime (date)=current_date
group by 1,2 order by 3 desc
```

| Tool Name                  | User       | Requests | Avg Elapsed Time   |
|----------------------------|------------|----------|--------------------|
| dba_resusageSummary        | DEMO_USER  | 23       | 0:00:00.001304     |
| dba_systemSpace            | DEMO_USER  | 10       | 0:00:00.000000     |
| base_readQuery             | DEMO_USER  | 9        | 0:00:00.001111     |
| base_tablePreview          | DEMO_USER  | 8        | 0:00:00.001250     |
| base_tableList             | DEMO_USER  | 7        | 0:00:00.000000     |


## Database Access

### Proxy user

This requires you to create a proxy user for the MCP Server in advance, and associate existing databases users so the MCP Server user can assume their identity.

Here is how you can do it:

Create a proxy user for the MCP Server
```SQL
CREATE USER mcp_svc AS 
    PASSWORD = mcp_svc
    ,PERM = 10e9  -- Adjust as needed
    ,SPOOL = 10e9  -- Adjust as needed
    ,ACCOUNT = 'service_account';
```

If you use a system admin user to manage users and roles make sure that it has CTCONTROL rights on the proxy user
```SQL
GRANT CTCONTROL ON mcp_svc TO sysdba WITH GRANT OPTION;
```

Proxy sessions use the user’s default role. You can specify roles using the `WITH ROLE` option. 
For more details, see [GRANT CONNECT THROUGH documentation](https://docs.teradata.com/r/Enterprise_IntelliFlex_VMware/SQL-Data-Control-Language/Statement-Syntax/GRANT-CONNECT-THROUGH).

```SQL
GRANT CONNECT THROUGH mcp_svc
  TO PERMANENT demo_user WITHOUT ROLE;
  --, PERMANENT alice   WITHOUT ROLE --Additional users here
```

Now you can use this the proxy user in as the MCP Server database connection, eg.

```sh
export DATABASE_URI="teradata://mcp_svc:mcp_svc@yourteradatasystem.teradata.com:1025"
uv run teradata-mcp-server --mcp_transport streamable-http --mcp_port 8001
```

:warning: **FOR DEMO PURPOSE** this needs to be integrated with an authentication mechanism to identify of the end user and determine the associated DB user!
In your client, indicate the end user name to assume in the http header, using the `db_user` key.

For example, with Clause Desktop  `claude_desktop_config.json`, to assume the `demo_user` user.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
   "teradata_mcp_remote": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["mcp-remote", "http://localhost:8001/mcp/", "--header", "X-Assume-User: ${DB_USER}"],
      "env": { "DB_USER": "demo_user" }
    }
  }
}
```

### Application user

This is the default mode for the MCP server: the server uses instantiates a connection pool to the database as specified in the DATABASE_URI string. This deployment method has the lowest database overhead and is optimal for high-throughput / low-latency applications.

:white_check_mark:	Ideal for application-specific instantiation with demanding SLAs. 
- Consider co-locating the server deployment with the application (as well as stdio-based communication)
- If exposed over a network interface (eg. streamable HTTP, SSE), implement sufficient network filtering and overlaying authentication mechanisms.

:warning: If no other authentication or database security mechanism are implemented, any user accessing the MCP Server instance 

Example over Streamable HTTP

```sh
export DATABASE_URI="teradata://demo_user:demo_user_password@yourteradatasystem.teradata.com:1025"
uv run teradata-mcp-server --mcp_transport streamable-http --mcp_port 8001
```

## Authentication
:warning: **Work in progress**

### End user direct authentication
Example: using Claude Desktop with [mcp-remote](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mcp-remote) to authentcate using a Baerer token:

Add the server configuration in `claude_desktop_config.json`

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
   "teradata_mcp_remote": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["mcp-remote", "http://localhost:8001/mcp/", "--header", "Authorization: Bearer ${AUTH_TOKEN}"],
      "env": { "AUTH_TOKEN": "thisismytoken" }
    }
  }
}
```

## Reporting a Vulnerability

The teradata-mcp-server community take security seriously.

We apprciate your efforts to responsibly disclose your findings, and will make every effort to acknowledge your contribution.

To report a security issue, please use the GitHub Security Advisory ["Report a Vulnerability"](https://github.com/Teradata/teradata-mcp-server/security/advisories)
