docs/client_guide/CLIENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# Working with MCP Clients

![Getting Started](../media/MCP.png)

This documet will cover the process and options for getting a client tool to connect to the teradata-mcp-server.  Note that you have many client options, we will cover some but not all.

The transport mode that the server is running needs to be the same as the client configuration.

![Client Server](../media/clientServer.png)

If you configured the server as a Streamable-http transport mode then the client also needs to be configured as a streamable-http mode.


## Clients

- [Claude Desktop](./Claude_desktop.md)
- [Microsoft Copilot](./Microsoft_copilot.md)
- [Google AgentSpace](./Google_agentspace.md)
- [Visual Studio Code](./Visual_Studio_Code.md)
- [MCP Inspector](./MCP_Inspector.md) - For testing MCP server
- [Code Agents](./Code_Agents.md) - Google ADK Agent & Pydanicai Agent
- [REST API](./Rest_API.md)
- [Open WebUI](./Open_WebUI.md)
- [Google Gemini CLI](./Google_Gemini_CLI.md)
- [MCP Web Client](../../test/MCP_WebClient/README.md)




---------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

updated Client guide to point to Audio Client and teradata-trusted-data-client repo, removed web_client directory, added the begining of a video library so that we can link curated set of videos

docs/client_guide/CLIENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# Working with MCP Clients

![Getting Started](../media/MCP.png)

This documet will cover the process and options for getting a client tool to connect to the teradata-mcp-server.  Note that you have many client options, we will cover some but not all.

The transport mode that the server is running needs to be the same as the client configuration.

![Client Server](../media/clientServer.png)

If you configured the server as a Streamable-http transport mode then the client also needs to be configured as a streamable-http mode.

There are many client options that you can choose from, they each have different strengths, we have curated a small number so that you have examples.

## GUI Clients

- [Claude Desktop](./Claude_desktop.md)
- [Microsoft Copilot](./Microsoft_copilot.md)
- [Google AgentSpace](./Google_agentspace.md)
- [Open WebUI](./Open_WebUI.md)
- [teradata-trusted-data-agent](https://github.com/rgeissen/teradata-trusted-data-agent)

## Audio Client
- [MCP Voice Client](../../test/MCP_VoiceClient/README.md)

## Code Clients
- [Visual Studio Code](./Visual_Studio_Code.md)
- [MCP Inspector](./MCP_Inspector.md) - For testing MCP server
- [Code Agents](./Code_Agents.md) - Google ADK Agent & Pydanicai Agent
- [REST API](./Rest_API.md)
- [Google Gemini CLI](./Google_Gemini_CLI.md)





---------------------------------------------------------------------
